>> Steve Kinney: All right, so this is in
a repo called clipmaster-spectron-fem-v2.
And we're gonna pull just Node's
built-in assertion library,
that path module, for
helping us out with a few things.
That application constructor that I showed
you before is attached to Spectron.
And when we use require('electron'),
it's mostly to get the path of
our instance of Electron, right?
This is going to be in Node
modules installed there.
And so theoretically,
if you wanted to test against the built
production version of your application?
You could hard-code in a path to that
Electron instance, we're not doing that,
we're testing development.
And so we're gonna create an application
that is going to use a new
Application constructor.
We're gonna point to where
it can find Electron.
And the arguments are actually gonna be,
we're in a test directory, so
we just want to go up a directory,
as well.
So before every test,
we're gonna start up the application.
After every test,
we are going to stop the application, so
we'll get a fresh app in
between every single test.
I also turned up Mocha's timeout,
because starting up an application and
tearing it down is not as fast
as comparing two strings, right?
So I bought us a little more time with
that, and we have this very first test,
which is basically,
does any of this even work, right?
You'll be like, yeah, assert.ok(true),
that makes total sense, but
that still involves spinning up
the app and tearing it down.
So let's go ahead and
take that first spin,
with npm test
>> Steve Kinney: And
you could briefly see the application,
there
wasn't a lot to do in the application,
but you saw it up here for a second.
We asserted that true was in fact true,
and then we tore down the application,
all right?
We have bunch of skipped tests,
in this case, so
I'm gonna kind of begin to
implement some of them.
And we could get a good feel for
the API of WebDriver,
and Spectron, by extension.
So I don't really need this test anymore,
so we have, shows an initial window.
Now we saw that, but again, this is,
we've got our training wheels on here,
we're practicing.
So one of the things we can do is, we
wanna figure how many windows there are.
Now, we saw there was
a getWindowCount(1) in that slide, so
we could say something like const count.
Now, this is an async function, mostly,
everything in Spectron is promise-based.
So you could .then, .then, .then,
and we'll do a little bit of that,
where it makes sense.
But we're gonna use a little
bit of the async await syntax,
which will get count, and we say,
await app.client.getWindowCount().
So this'll wait for that
getWindowCount promise to resolve, and
assign that to the variable count.
Now, when we implemented
Clipmaster before,
we knew that it
was,effectively one window.
So, we know when the application starts
out, that count should be 1, and
we wanna assert.equal().
>> Steve Kinney: All right, cool,
assert that, when this starts up,
we got one window.
So await, if we don't have await,
then the function will just end, so
we'll wait for that to happen.
And then in Mocha, the way it knows
that your test is actually over,
cuz we're doing asynchronous stuff,
is we return that promise.
And when the whole promise resolves,
we know the test is done.
So take that, and we'll un-skip that test,
let's give it a shot.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
shows an initial window, so
when it started the application,
it counted one window, the test passed.
All right,
does that window have the correct title?
>> Steve Kinney: So
we can say const title = await app.client,
wait until the window's loaded, right?
Cuz we need that HTML
page to totally load,
cuz it gets the title from
the title element in the HTML.
So we'll say waitUntilWindowLoaded(), and
then we'll say getTitle().
And then we'll assert,
return assert.equal,
the title is, in this case,
Clipmaster 9000,
cuz I was feeling saucy
when I make the app.
That test is still skipped,
>> Steve Kinney: Run an npm test,
fire up the app once, fire up the app
twice, it has the correct title, right?
So we're beginning to make assertions
about, even the window title,
and stuff along those lines,
all right, what's our next test?
Assert that we did not ship it
with the developer tools open,
seems like a good test to run
before we build it, all right?
I'm gonna say,
const devToolsAreOpen = await app.client,
I'll give myself a little room here,
I've got a big font.
Wait until the window is loaded,
get the browser window,
that one browser window that we had open,
and call the isDevToolsOpened().
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and
then we will return assert,
I'll go with assert.equal.
>> Steve Kinney: It should run three tests
this time, we'll show that other window,
see it again, if you skip the tests,
they don't run.
Someone needs to be on Steve,
you forgot to unskip the test duty.
One, two, three,
the dev tools are not open, right?
So now, when we got the browser window
itself, you can actually call this,
this is a method on
browser window instances.
So we can actually directly reach
into some of the Electron APIs, and
call that ourselves.